---
layout: indicator
sdg_goal: '13'
target_id: '13.b'
permalink: /13-b-1/
published: true
target: 13.b Promote mechanisms for raising capacity for effective climate change-related planning and management in least developed countries and small island developing States, including focusing on women, youth and local and marginalized communities
indicator: 13.b.1
indicator_name: >-
  13.b.1 Number of least developed countries and small island developing States that are receiving specialized support, and amount of support, including finance, technology and capacity-building, for mechanisms for raising capacities for effective climate change-related planning and
  management, including focusing on women, youth and local and marginalized communities
national_indicator_available: The United Kingdom's contribution to support developing countries on effective climate change
national_indicator_description: The UK's commitment to support least developed countries to improve climate change.
un_designated_tier: 3.0
un_custodian_agency: UNFCCC in consultation with OECD
goal_meta_link: https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/tierIII-indicators/files/Tier3-13-b-01.pdf
goal_meta_link_text: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Metadata (PDF 4.0 MB)
national_geographical_coverage: UK
reporting_status: complete
data_non_statistical: true
data_show_map: false
data_keywords: climate change
source_active_1: false
source_active_2: false
source_active_3: false
source_active_4: false
source_active_5: false
source_active_6: false
indicator_sort_order: 13-bb-01
comments_limitations: This indicator is being used as an approximation of the UN SDG Indicator. Where possible, we will work to identify or develop UK data to meet the global indicator specification. This indicator has been identified in collaboration with topic experts.
---
**Non-statistical indicator**

This, or part of this, indicator is classified as Tier 3 and therefore no internationally established methodology or standards are yet available, but methodology or standards are being (or will be) developed or tested. Until methodology or standards have been agreed we are reporting/linking to the most relevant source of information.

The [International Climate Finance (ICF)](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/international-climate-finance) is a UK government commitment to support developing countries to respond to the challenges and opportunities of climate change. UK International Climate Finance plays a crucial role in addressing this global challenge. Three government departments: Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (Defra), Department for International Development (DFID), and Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) have responsibility for investing the UK’s £5.8bn of ICF between 2016 and 2021. The latest UK ICF results are available [here](https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/721993/2018-UK-Climate-Finance-Results.pdf). The results from this report cover climate finance across the UK development portfolio which includes, but are not limited to, least developed countries and small island developing states. 

There are various international development projects that are led by the Department for International Development (DFID), other government departments and partners. Work that focuses mainly on least developed countries include: 
* Building Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Extremes and Disasters (BRACED)
The Building Resilience and Adaptation to Climate Extremes and Disasters (BRACED) programme is helping people become more resilient to climate extremes in South, Southeast Asia, in the African Sahel and neighbouring countries. This is through improved integration of disaster risk reduction and climate adaptation methods into development approaches, influencing local, national and international policies and practices.
* Weather and climate Information and SERvices for Africa (WISER)
The Weather and Climate Information Services for Africa programme (WISER) is on track to deliver transformational change in the quality, accessibility and use of weather and climate information at all levels of decision making for sustainable development in Africa. The Met Office is leading the East African component of this programme, enhancing national and regional weather observing and forecasting capabilities in the region. Pan-African work is led by the UNECA African Climate Policy Centre (ACPC). 

Further information on the above programmes are available on the [Development Tracker](https://devtracker.dfid.gov.uk/).

Note: DFID work (including the programmes mentioned above) are included within the finance and results report published by the UK International Climate Finance (ICF).