---
layout: indicator
sdg_goal: '15'
target_id: '15.8'
permalink: /15-8-1/
published: true
target: 15.8 By 2020, introduce measures to prevent the introduction and significantly reduce the impact of invasive alien species on land and water ecosystems and control or eradicate the priority species
indicator: 15.8.1
indicator_name: 15.8.1 Proportion of countries adopting relevant national legislation and adequately resourcing the prevention or control of invasive alien species
national_indicator_available: Relevant UK policies
un_designated_tier: Tier II
un_custodian_agency: International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)
goal_meta_link: https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/metadata/files/Metadata-15-08-01.pdf 
goal_meta_link_text: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Metadata (PDF 4.0 MB)
reporting_status: complete
data_non_statistical: true
data_show_map: false
data_keywords: Non-statistical, legislation, policy
source_active_1: false
source_active_2: false
source_active_3: false
source_active_4: false
source_active_5: false
source_active_6: false
indicator_sort_order: 15-08-01
comments_limitations: Data follows the UN specification for this indicator. This indicator has been identified in collaboration with topic experts.
---
**Non-statistical indicator**

[InforMEA](https://www.informea.org/en/countries/GB/parties); the United Nations Information Portal on Multilateral Environmental Agreements, contains the UK status against treaties and lists our Action Plans, National Reports and National Legislation, which can be filtered to search on invasive species. 

In our [6th National Report to the Convention on Biological Diversity](http://data.jncc.gov.uk/data/527ff89f-5f6b-4e06-bde6-b823e0ddcb9a/UK-CBD-6NR-v2-web.pdf), the UK report progress against Aichi Target 9: by 2020, invasive alien species and pathways are identified and prioritized, priority species are controlled or eradicated and measures are in place to manage pathways to prevent their introduction and establishment of invasive alien species. The assessment concluded we were making progress towards the target but at an insufficient rate. 

The report stated that: Invasive Non-Native Species (INNS) are managed on a Great Britain and all-Ireland basis in the British Isles, with countries working closely together to co-ordinate their efforts. Priority species have been identified following extensive scientific review and expert input and a framework to prioritise their management have been developed. Comprehensive risk analysis processes are in place (including horizon scanning, risk assessment and risk management), as are new information systems and contingency plans to support rapid response. 

For established INNS, long term management is being undertaken to control some, but not all, of the most invasive INNS where feasible. In the recent past the GB has intercepted two species (Asian hornet and raccoon), and eradicated three species (African clawed toad, fathead minnow and black bullhead), Pathway management has focussed on a number of initial priority pathways and a comprehensive pathway prioritisation exercise in Britain is due to be completed by the end of 2018. The strategic approach adopted by UK countries has led to the successful interception and eradication of INNS with further eradications underway. 

Despite strong action, the number of INNS established in Britain has remained constant, in terrestrial environments, and has increased in the freshwater and marine environment. The countries of the UK acknowledge that the impact and risk from INNS species in the UK remains significant and that there is a need to continue to develop plans to reduce the risk from all high priority pathways for invasive non-native species introduction and to raise awareness of the need for strong biosecurity. For this reason, progress is assessed Overview of the UK Assessments of Progress for the Aichi Targets 7 Aichi Target Assessment conclusion Assessment summary as insufficient. INNS are known to be a pressure on many of the Overseas Territories; the logistics for eradication can be hugely challenging, but some successes have been recorded.
<br><br>