---
indicator_name: global_indicators.5-4-1-title
target_name: global_targets.5-4-title
indicator_number: 5.4.1
csv_size: 79.457 kB
indicator_available: Proportion of the population who are informal carers & those who provide informal care.
national_indicator_description: Proportion of the population who are informal carers, by proportion of time per day on informal care care, age and sex. Proportion of those who provide informal care, by employment status, weekly income and hours caring per week.
un_designated_tier: Tier II
un_custodian_agency: UN Statistics Division (UNSD)
goal_meta_link: https://unstats.un.org/sdgs/metadata/files/Metadata-05-04-01.pdf
goal_meta_link_text: United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Metadata (PDF 337 KB)
national_geographical_coverage: United Kingdom
computation_units: Percentage (%)
computation_definitions: >-
  <p> Informal carers - the Family Resources Survey (FRS) defines all those giving help on an informal basis (that is, not as part of a paid job) as informal carers.  This definition is consistent with the <a href="https://gss.civilservice.gov.uk/policy-store/unpaid-care/"> Government
  Statistical Service (GSS) harmonised “core” definition </a>. Professional carers can also be informal carers if giving help outside of work. What should be counted as care is not prescriptively defined but includes activities such as going shopping for someone and helping with paperwork.
  Those in receipt of care may be receiving either formal or informal care or a mixture of both.</p>
available_disaggregations: Age, Sex, Income, Proportion of time 
reporting_status: complete
data_non_statistical: false
data_footnote: >-
  <p> 1) Data collection for 2020/21 has been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Please see the background relevant <a href="https://www.gov.uk/government/statistics/family-resources-survey-financial-year-2020-to-2021/family-resources-survey-background-information-and-methodology"> Family
  Resources Survey (FRS)  Information and Methodology </a> for the specific adjustments that have been made in light of the COVID impacts on the sample. </p> <p> 2) For the series "Informal carers" the base population of the percentage is the total adult population, for instance "in
  2020/21, 6 percent of the total adult population were informal carers" . For the series "Of all informal carers" the base population of the percentage is all informal carers, for instance "in 2020/21, of all informal carers, 53 percent were in employment". </p>
